# TRNG-on-a-PYNQ-Z1-FPGA-Development-Board
This tutorial goes through the hardware/software implementation for a true random number generator design based on a cellular automata topology on a PYNQ-Z1 FPGA Development Board.

# Introduction/Context
A True Random Number Generator (TRNG) is a system that generates unpredictable random numbers and bits of data from non-deterministic phenomena. Such examples of these phenomena include thermal noise, glitch of a digital circuit, or any other hard-to-measure physical characteristics. This differs from the other common random number generator in a pseudo-random number generator, as that design is built from linear feedback shift registers (LSFR) and are vulnerable to cryptanalytic attacks if seed or algorithm is known. 

There are many different designs for a TRNG, both digital and analog, however, to make a TRNG easily implemented in applications of processing systems, digital circuits is the preferred method. In regard to analog designs, there are metastability based designs that fall short in being high cost and sensitive to aging (decrease in entropy), and ring-oscillator based designs that are vulnerable to attacks. With higher utilization rates in reconfigurable devices, like FPGA, to be less susceptible to external attacks, the digital TRNG designs can be used. For a preexisting self-timed digital circuit-based TRNG using a ring oscillator, the main element is a “C element” composed of a Muller gate and an inverter. These are interleaved to form an asynchronous micropipeline to improve performance and speed of generation. Although the design used in this tutorial is similar with using a self-timed ring structure, there is the difference of it being based on cellular automata topology. 

A cellular automata is composed of λ identical cellular automata elements, that each have k possible states represented by colors. These states/colors repeatedly change based on an updating rule (U) that is applied to all elements. The colors are jointly determined by colors of neighbor cells (Nx) and itself, where neighbors are determined by range (r) from cell (x). The specific rule used in this design is CA30, in which the patterns of the rule are unpredictable by known formula and therefore formally proved of chaotic behavior. In further sections of this tutorial, this rule will be used to create an ACR30 design, the base of the TRNG.
